Yulu: Company Profile
Yulu is India’s largest shared EV mobility technology company. It was founded in 2017 by seasoned and serial entrepreneurs with a mission to make urban commuting clean, inclusive and sustainable. Yulu is driven by the three guiding principles of urban mobility: accessibility, availability, and affordability. 
Backed by marquee and strategic investors, Yulu provides its urban mobility-as-a-service (MaaS) offering in five cities: Bengaluru, Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Delhi and Gurugram. It has enabled 60+ million green rides covering 280+ million kilometres so far. 
Yulu’s fleet is powered by one of India’s largest artificial intelligence-powered Battery-as-a-Service (BaaS) platforms, Yuma Energy, which offers practically unlimited range to its riders. With 6.5+ million battery swaps to date, Yuma Energy’s network has enabled the accelerated adoption of electric mobility in India. 
Creating impact across the board
As a MaaS market leader, pioneer and innovator, Yulu has generated significant social, environmental and economic impact through its products and services. Here is a glimpse of the impact we have delivered: 
25,000 shared EVs across India ,4+ million user base since inception  ,135,000+ delivery partners served to date, 75+ million green deliveries enabled  , 20+ million kg of CO2 emissions saved 
About our products
Yulu’s shared EV products include the Yulu Miracle and Yulu DeX models. In 2023, it also launched its first electric two-wheeler for personal ownership, the Wynn. Yulu’s vehicles offer a quick commute solution within a safe speed limit, and don’t require riders to have a driving licence. Thus, Yulu is able to address the needs of many user segments in India, where only 15% of the population has a driving licence. 
Here’s more information on each of the company’s products.
Yulu Miracle: The Yulu Miracle EV pioneered shared mobility-as-a-service in India. The first batch of Miracles was launched in 2019. With extensive ride data, consumer feedback, tech backbone and design understanding for an India-specific shared electric 2-wheeler, the Yulu Miracle has been hailed as a mobility solution of choice for a wide demographic of users. Be it for first-and-last mile connectivity, intra-city mobility, a commute option to go to office, or have fun outings, and much more, Yulu Miracle does it all, with its affordable and sustainable ride experience. 
Yulu DeX : The DeX is a purpose-built delivery vehicle. Supported by efficient tech-enabled operations, affordable and flexible plans, and a robust fleet management system, the Yulu DeX has found a strong fit with the last-mile delivery segment: both with delivery companies looking for a green, scalable, trackable, and efficient solution, as well as with delivery partners looking for an easily accessible vehicle that maximises their earnings. 
A major advantage of Yulu’s platform is that it enables 40% lower cost of operations compared with conventional-fuel vehicles.  
Yulu Wynn: The Yulu Wynn is a revolutionary EV in the personal mobility space. It is born out of years of understanding and research on user behaviour and the urban mobility needs of a wide cross-section of customers. The Wynn is an intelligent electric 2-wheeler designed for easy mobility for urban families,  and it has many industry-first features like truly-keyless access and instant family-sharing. Wynn also offers a unique and affordable ownership experience through its mobility subscription packs.
A complete suite of mobility solutions
From purpose-built, green and efficient EVs, to a robust and intelligent battery swapping network and a tech-powered MaaS for urban mobility, Yulu provides a compelling suite of EV mobility solutions for a supercharged future. 
Yulu’s platform comprises the following:
-Purpose-built electric 2-wheelers that are a perfect blend of intelligence, form and function and are built for versatile use-cases and city-friendly rides.
-An intelligent IoT platform which gathers vehicle data from electronic control units and onboard sensors. The lithium-ion batteries, for instance, communicate with the vehicle ten times per second. All this information is relayed to Yulu’s cloud servers that power Yulu's fleet operations and business algorithms, thus delivering superior ride performance, efficiency, and safety for users. 
-Yuma Energy’s battery swapping network with 120 stations pan-India, which is fully integrated with Yulu’s core mobility platform
-A fleet management system powered by AI/ML which is built for scale with efficiency and honed over hundreds of real-world iterations.
-An intuitive and user-friendly customer app (Android and Apple) that is the gateway to the Yulu ecosystem. 

Founder Profiles

Amit Gupta : Co-founder and CEO
Amit co-founded InMobi, India’s first profitable internet unicorn. Amit played an instrumental role in building InMobi’s revenue engine and its expansion in 15+ countries. Prior to starting Yulu, Amit built a new business unit for InMobi that created massive value for Telecom Operators and Smartphone manufacturers. Amit is also an active angel investor and has invested in multiple startups across India and the US. Amit graduated from IIT Kanpur and received the prestigious Distinguished Alumni Award from the institution.

RK Misra : Co-founder 
RK Misra founded and successfully exited Tenet Technologies (sold to Hughes) and Traveljini.com (sold to ICICI Ventures) post which he left the corporate world to engage with issues of Public Policy & Governance. RK is associated with organisations like Society of Manufacturers of Electric Vehicles (President); Carnegie India; Center for Smart Cities (Founder); SAHYOG (Founder); and Karnataka CM's Vision Group. RK did his graduation from IIT Kanpur and Masters from Tokyo University. He is also a Fellow of Harvard Kennedy School of Govt and Aspen Institute.

Naveen Dachuri : Co-founder and CTO played leadership roles at Ascent-Consulting where he architected and implemented a complex analytics platform for US Federal Aviation Administration from ground up. Prior to that, he was Technical Director for Data Analytics at BIAS Corporation. He also co-founded Learnora, an online educational platform. He holds a Bachelor’s degree from IIT Kanpur and a Master’s degree in Computer Graphics from Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology, South Korea (GIST).

Anuj Tewari (Chief Financial Officer) Anuj comes with over two decades of professional experience in Finance and Strategy. Prior to Yulu, he headed the Financial Planning & Analysis functions at Agility Group, and was the Finance Head at KAMCO, a leading asset management company with AUM of $14 billion in the Middle East, as well as in various capacities at Barclays Bank in GCC and India. Anuj was on the board of the CFA Society in Kuwait from August 2016 to August 2020. He completed his CA from The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and holds a CFA degree from the CFA Institute.




What can Yulu do for Smart Cities? YULU’s vision is to provide shared, smart and sustainable Public Bike Sharing (PBS) system with an objective to drastically reduce congestion, pollution and enhance economic productivity. We are committed to creating livable cities of tomorrow through our “Green Mobility” solutions. We provide seamless connectivity with public transport hubs; such as Railway Stations, Bus Rapid Transit Systems, Metro Stations, etc to solve the first and last mile commute problem. Currently we are operational at Bangalore, Bhubaneswar, Pune, Delhi NCR and Mumbai. We look forward to working with you to provide clean and green micro-mobility solution for your city.


How can Yulu help entrepreneurs set up Urban Mobility in cities? At Yulu, we collaborate with entrepreneurs as our business partners to provide micro-mobility solution in various cities. Yulu provides the products (IoT enabled Cycles/eCycles/e-NMVs), technology platform (AI/ML based backend infrastructure, and Mobile apps for users & operations team), processes (logistics, operations & maintenance), training and marketing support to help you focus on running a viable and profitable mobility business in your city. Together let’s build a smart urban mobility solution that can be used by the citizens to create sustainable cities of tomorrow. We are continually looking for new partners to expand our network through collaborative partnership with entrepreneurs. Become a part of our YBP (Yulu Business Partners) Program!
Yulu’s mission is to make urban mobility in India seamless, shareable and sustainable. What started off as an initiative to reduce traffic congestion and pollution in Indian cities, is now redefining urban mobility across the country. We are driven by three guiding principles of urban mobility – Accessibility, Availability, and Affordability. We are empowering residents in Indian cities to create a paradigm shift in the mobility industry, by making the urban commute more efficient and eco-friendly. Yulu is a technology-driven mobility platform that enables Integrated Urban Mobility across public and private modes of transport. Using Micro Mobility Vehicles (MMVs) through a user-friendly mobile app, Yulu enables first and last-mile connectivity that is seamless, shared and sustainable. We are an India-based company with a founding team that is deeply passionate about creating positive social impact. This mindset is instilled in each and every member of our team, and we are dedicated to making a difference in the lives of people around us. So, if you are passionate about the challenges of urban mobility, chaotic congestion, and sustainable living, let’s have a conversation and make a difference together!


What is Yulu? Yulu is a Micro Mobility Platform service with a mission to solve first mile, last mile and short distance commute problems in urban cities and doing so in a sustainable manner by providing smart electric MMV (Micro Mobility Vehicles). Commuting via Yulu not only helps reduce traffic congestion but also controls air pollution, thereby making your city a better place to live in. 
How does Yulu work? Yulu uses MMVs which are custom designed for Indian roads and fitted with a secure lock system. Each vehicle is integrated with a smartphone app which gives you, as a rider, better access, and convenience to take a ride right when you need it. To ensure convenience and better accessibility, we have created designated Yulu Zones in the cities we serve. A Yulu MMV can be picked up from anywhere in the city but must be dropped at Yulu Zones only. An active ride will not end outside a Yulu Zone. Places we currently serve Yulu is currently present in Bangalore, Pune, Mumbai, Bhubaneswar, Ahmedabad and Delhi. If you would like a Yulu in your city, please write to us at – ecosys@yulu.bike
 How do I download the app? To start using Yulu, simply download the Yulu app on Play Store for Android devices or App Store for iOS devices. You can also search “Yulu” in both the App Store and Google Play stores to get the download link. I have trouble receiving OTP via SMS Please make sure that your phone is enabled to receive OTP via SMS (Native Phone Message). If you are having trouble receiving the OTP via SMS, click “Resend OTP” on the Yulu app OTP verification page. 
Why does Yulu require my email id? In case you have any issues with our service and you contact Yulu Support, then Yulu will use your email to update you on the status of the issue. Your e-mail id is kept confidential and Yulu does not share your information with anyone.

How much does a Yulu ride cost? 
A single Yulu ride cost of Yulu Mircale in Bangalore cost Rs 5 (base fare) + 2.5 rupees per minute. In cities other than Bangalore it costs Rs 10(base fare) + 2.5 rupees per minute.

Pause Charges -Rs. 5 for every 30 minutes (Rs 0.5 for every 1 min in Bangalore) - Rs. 90 maximum between 6:00pm to 10:00am. 



Why do I have to pay security deposit? For Yulu Miracle is Rs. 500. It is collected to ensure a user takes complete responsibility of the vehicle while using it. Security Deposit is refundable and can be requested in the Wallet section of the app.


How to ask for Security Deposit Refund? You can request a refund of Security Deposit using the app. On the app, click on the Wallet Balance card to open Top-Up screen. On the Top-Up screen, click on ‘Refund’ to initiate the refund process. It takes 7-14 working days for the refund process.


How do I check my wallet balance? You may check your account balance in your profile at any time. The balance in your wallet can only be used to pay for your ride. The balance has no expiration date, is non-refundable and non-transferable.


What is a pre-ride safety check? Visually inspect the body of the vehicle for cracks or other structural damage.  Check the brakes and air pressure in tires of the vehicle. Check if the chain is tight and not hanging loose in case you are using Yulu Move. Check the seat height and stability before taking a ride. 


What is Yulu doing to protect my data and privacy? We take our riders’ data and privacy very seriously. GPS data is always anonymized before sharing with cities. Additionally, we do not sell rider data to third-party recipients, and a subpoena or other lawful process is required to access rider data in compliance with legal obligations. To find out more, please read our Privacy Statement. 


How do I find a Yulu near me? To find a Yulu near you, simply open the Yulu app. You’ll automatically be taken to the map screen, showing all available Yulu MMVs in your area. If you don’t see any vehicle icons displayed on the map, zoom out to search a wider area. 


How do I unlock a Yulu? To unlock a Yulu MMV, simply open the Yulu app and tap on the ‘Unlock’ button at the bottom of the screen. From here, either scan the QR code using your phone’s camera or manually enteir the 6-digit vehicle code located beneath the QR code.


Where can I ride a Yulu? Yulu can be ridden on streets, in bike lanes, and on bike paths. Please respect all traffic laws and do not ride your Yulu on the sidewalk.








DOs and DON’Ts to use Yulu 


DOs (Your safety is important to us) Do a pre-ride quality check of a Yulu .Always follow traffic laws.Ride safely, Park responsibly at a Yulu Zone only.Avoid obstructions on the road and overspeeding.  In case of any problem, write to us at support@yulu.bike


DON’Ts (Avoid getting into trouble) 
Don’t park the vehicle in a basement or any unsafe place
Don’t leave the vehicle lock open in Pause mode
Don’t Pause the vehicle for more than 3 hours 
Don’t leave the vehicle unattended during the night 


Where can I park a Yulu? Yulu has designated Yulu Zones displayed on the app and Yulu allows you to park a vehicle at a Yulu Zone only. You cannot end a ride if you are not at a Yulu Zone however, you can use our Pause feature to pause your ride and resume later. For your convenience, please check if there is a Yulu Zone close to your destination before you start your ride. 


How do I end my ride? Check for the nearest Yulu Zone on the app. Park your vehicle at the Yulu Zone and manually lock the vehicle. Click on the End Button in your app to successfully end your ride. 
Yulu Pause You can make multiple stops within one ride! Simply hit Pause on the app and select the time till which you want to Pause, finish your work and hit Resume to start riding again. Under Pause, the vehicle is reserved for you and nobody else is allowed to use it. Yulu Keep: Keep the bike safe with you at home. Maximum Pause charges of Rs.30 for Move and Rs.90 for Miracle between 6:00pm to 10:00am. 


How to find the nearest Miracle? Choose the Miracle icon in the Map screen of the app and you will be shown Yulu Zones and Miracles available nearby.


How to ride Miracle? To enjoy a miraculous ride –  Switch on your phone’s Bluetooth and click the UNLOCK button.  Scan the QR code on Miracle and your phone will get connected to it. The battery and estimated range of the vehicle you chose will be displayed on the pre-ride screen. Click the CONTINUE button and the bike will get unlocked.  Enjoy your ride. Please do a quick safety check of the tyres, seat and brakes. Unmount the bike from the stand and once you are ready, click the START Button. Now the motor is ON and you can control your speed with the accelerator.


How to stop a Miracle? You can end your ride only at a Yulu Zone. Stop the Miracle with brakes, and then click the END RIDE button. Upon doing so, the motor gets switched OFF, the vehicle gets locked and the ride is ended.


How to use the Pause feature with Miracle? Stop the Miracle with brakes. Then press the PAUSE button. The motor gets switched off, the vehicle gets locked and the ride is paused. When you are ready to resume the ride, press the RESUME button. Now your Miracle is unlocked. Once you are ready to ride, click the START button and control your speed using the accelerator.
